One, two, three.
Okay, testing.
One, two, three, four.
No, you don't have to hold that up.
Testing one, two, three, four.
This is Thursday, August 16.
This is the second tape with Greg Garcia, and we were getting ready to chat about some more about his freshman year, particularly intrigued about the fish drill team.
How did you and others in your day, how did you
apply for, how did you get in, how was the group selected?
Tell me everything you can about the fish drill team.
Actually there was an announcement made in a mess hall that anyone that had interest in being a member of the fish drill team to report it to the drill field at a certain day, you know at 5 o'clock, whatever time it was.
What they did is we had probably over, I'm going to say about over 200 freshmen that were trying out for the fish drill team, maybe 250.
I don't remember how many there were.
But the idea here was that they looked at you as a person that could already drill.
Now, they weren't going to train you.
They already wanted someone that was capable of doing that.
And most of the members that made the fish drill team all had probably previous OOTC experience in their high schools.
And so they went through the process of selection and they took 40 cadets.
Had you had that experience?
Yes, I had high school at ROTC.
At which high school?
Central Catholic High School, yeah.
I was on the drill team there at Central Catholic.
As a matter of fact, there was like about four or five of us from Central Catholic that tried out for the drill team.
And every one of us made it.
And there was another school in San Antonio, Jefferson High School, that had quite a few kids that tried out.
But there was a pretty good size or a big blend of kids from all over the state, Laredo, Dallas, Fort Worth.
We even had one that I can recall from Louisiana.
And so once they had the body of 40, they went ahead and
And they would drill you for a period of time.
And then it came time to select the drill team commander, which was from the freshman.
And the pride of that was the fact that the freshman would be the only fish that would carry a saber because he was the commander.
And also the guide on bear was another position that they
they looked at real close to try to select one of the members, and so anybody could try out for it.
So probably out of the group of 40, I'm going to say that about four tried out for drill team commanders, and about two or three for a guide on bearer.
I tried out for both.
And we got down to two people, and I was one of the two for the drill team commander.
And I got beat out by a young man that had just gotten out of the Marine Corps.
And he was like, how would you say, a 21-year-old freshman in the Corps.
So they picked him, and so then since I had tried out for guide-on-bearer, and so I was a guide-on-bearer for the fish drill team.
And so we would drill every day, every day.
About how long?
5 to about 6.30.
Where?
Different parts of the campus, depending on where they needed us to
Whatever we were going to do, we were going to compete in the competition.
If it was on a grass area, then we would drill on a grass area.
If it was a hard top or a flat top area, we would drill on a parking lot, depending on what we were going to compete for.
We were going to be in a parade.
Of course, it was on a flat top.
But we would drill every day for an hour, hour and a half.
And then we would go to the mess hall and eat with the athletes.
We would eat with all the athletes.
So we would go to the Dunkin' Mess Hall, and it wasn't the football players, because they ate over in another place, but like the ones that did the other kind of sports, the other sports anyway.
That was the advantage of being on the fish drill team because you didn't have to go with your outfit, see.
And so actually you didn't have to follow the hard regulation of sitting at attention.
So I mean you still had to wear your bib and you had to halfway sit at attention and you could carry a little bit of conversation amongst you.
But that was one of the advantages.
And the other was that
An outfit would hold you in high regard if you were a member of the Fish Drill Team because they accumulated points for the fact that you were on the Fish Drill Team.
So that was points toward the General Moore trophy.
So automatically they would look at you as a leader for the rest of the freshmen in your outfit.
So they would always come to the Fish Drill Team members.
I was the only one in my outfit that was on the Fish Drill Team.
And they would always tell you, okay, I want you to do this with the other freshmen.
I want you to show them how to polish their shoes, how to wear their brass.
And so they would always kind of start to bring out leaders within the fish class.
And so that was, it was an exciting year because we did go, made a couple of trips.
We didn't travel like they do today, but we traveled too.
We went to Galveston for Splash Day back in those, I don't even think they, I think they have Mardi Gras Day now.
And Laredo, they always had a Washington birthday and they used to have a big competition down there.
We went to that, went to San Antonio for the Battle of Flowers parade and the night parade.
And so it gave us an opportunity to go to certain places and of course they had to let us go because of the fact that we were members of the fish drill team.
One of the requirements was that in order to stay on the drill team, you had to maintain a certain GPA.
And if you did not maintain that GPA, then you would automatically be, you had to stay out till you brought that GPA back up to the standard that they required.
And the official team commander
I still remember his name, Ben Rice.
He got in scholastic problems after his first semester.
So then I was a fish drill team commander for the second semester up till the time that he brought his grades up, which was close to Galveston, Galveston Splash Day.
So in here, the activities that occurred here on the campus, I was kind of
I guess what would you say, the interim fish drill team commander.
And they used to have, and they don't have that anymore, we had what we used to call a combat ball.
And that was a big event for the fish drill team because they were like the honor guard to all the dignitaries that came in and when the dignitaries came in we would
form a line and and and take them form two lines and then take them and automatically we would take them into the uh into a cell and somebody had to come over there and get them out you know some other dignitary that i think they had to make some kind of contribution so that was interesting and uh but they had we had a lot of pride the kids had a lot of the students had a lot of pride the cadets were very proud
They were always looked at by other freshmen in the Corps as, you know, the best.
And I understand they're bringing it back this year.
We understand that the fish drill team is coming back this year.
I've heard that some cadets that wanted to come here because we did not have a fish drill team decided not to come here and not be members of the Corps.
A lot of cadets will always look at A&M and look at the fish drill team and say, you know, I want to be part of that group.
And when the tragedies that happened with it, it's kind of like sad.
But anyway, I think that eventually, I think we're going to work it out.
I think we'll have it back again.
We would follow, as a freshman all the way to senior, you would follow the freshmen that would come in and you would always go out there and work with them.
But it was more on a volunteer basis, not the way they actually went to toward the end where they had these guys they called the hounds, and those hounds actually
were a little too hard on these cadets.
You know actually you needed to work with them in a manner of actually drilling and discipline, but not hazing.
And they would not let us haze.
The upperclassmen would not let, we could not be hazed.
In other words, we had to run labs with the rifles and all that kind of stuff, but it wasn't a thing where you would have to do certain things that were an upperclassmen.
Because the upperclassmen that were like our moderators,
We didn't have that many.
We may have like three or four moderators, and those moderators would work with that group up to a point where you felt that they were ready, and then you would only keep one of those moderators to be with them for the rest of the year.
We had a, I'd say, he wasn't the one, yeah, Captain Reeves.
I'm trying to remember his Air Force.
R-I-V-E-S?
R-E-E-S-E.
I think Captain Reeves was the moderator for the fish drill team.
And he was, as a matter of fact, I saw him in one of the last competitions before they dissolved the drill team.
And they invited him to a kind of reunion type deal and he was there.
And he was already retired.
You know, he's up in his ears already.
But anyway, he would go everywhere with the fish drill team.
And then the moderator would go with the fish drill team.
By the time I was a senior, they were already making the trip to the Mardi Gras.
And so that was a big opportunity for them to go to Mardi Gras.
And they were starting to go to some bigger competitions because they were better known and you know so they were, I guess the school had more money to give them to make these bigger trips like they went to Florida or to the Mardi Gras New Orleans.
So it was a great experience.
It taught me a lot of discipline.
So I got the impression during your freshman year by being on the fish drill team
you had less harassment or teasing or hazing than other freshmen might have had.
Not necessarily so.
It depended on.
If there were certain upperclassmen that didn't like the fact or maybe had a little bit of a, or a little envious, then they would ride you hard.
But the other upperclassmen would not let them
get out of hand with you because they would always tell me, you got to be proud that this freshman is part of the fish drill team because he's he's representing our outfits.
And you live still with your outfit?
Oh, yes.
We lived in our outfits.
We kept our rifles in our holes, and we made sure they were clean, and we took them out to the drill field all the time, and they inspected them just like anybody else.
Funny thing about it is you had Air Force and Army in there at that time, so some of the cadets that were on the drill team may have never had experience with a rifle, so they had to teach that part of the drill, manual of arms and whatever it took.
It was amazing what you could do when you train a group of cadets that probably didn't know each other from whatever, and come together.
and really bond together and really have an experience of their life in freshman year.
And the fact that you were Hispanic had nothing to do with your being selected or not being selected?
No, I don't think so.
I think that it was mostly on ability.
As far as you know who made the selections of the two?
Actually the moderators that they had from the previous year from the fish drill team plus the certain officers, say military officers assigned to the Trigon, maybe two or three, and some of the sergeants that they would bring out there.
And so they'd take the masts and then they'd start cutting it down little by little by little.
And until they got to that 40.
And then that's where they sat.
And that's the way they kept it.
Describe in your freshman, sophomore year or so, describe a typical class day, a Monday through Friday.
What time did you get up?
What did you do when?
Okay.
Typical class day was like, we would get up around 6 o'clock in the morning.
maybe a little earlier, 5.30, depending on whether your uniform was ready or not, because you had to make sure when you fell out in the morning, the uniform, mainly when you were a freshman or sophomore, there really was not much difference between a freshman and a sophomore outside of the uniform distinction, but you still had to follow the same rules.
And you would fall, we probably would fall out during the start of the year,
Before, you know, we've had the first football games and all that, we would fall out a little earlier because we had to drill, drill, drill, drill, trying to get the outfit ready for the first march into the stadium.
And so you would drill like, you may fall out like 6.30, drill for half an hour, go to the mess hall about 7.00.
finish your breakfast and then come back and go to your class, depending on what time your class was.
But every day was the same.
I mean, every day was the same.
And I don't know, maybe somebody else explained to you that we had whistle jocks that would make sure that we were all up, give us the meal for the day, for that morning, and then the uniform for that day, and that's the way you had to come out.
And they would inspect you every morning.
They would inspect you every morning.
Did your uniform as a freshman have any symbol on it that you were on the fish drill team?
No.
You had to earn, you had to complete.
And then at the completion of your freshman year, they would give you a medal and what we used to call the barber pole.
It was a maroon and white
It was a little, what do you call it, a ribbon.
And it was maroon and white and it was diagonal so we called it the barber pole.
So if you had a barber pole, you were pretty good.
So anyway, that's the only time that we were able to identify.
say like the freshman in the Corps knew who was on the fish drill team.
I mean they knew exactly who was on the fish drill team because they used to watch us drill and they used to, and the upperclassmen also kind of, they knew someone, I mean they knew who was on the fish drill team.
Now your freshman major was what?
What were you majoring in as a freshman?
I actually started on pre-law.
Pre-law.
All right.
So most of your classes, back to the class day, most of your classes were in the middle of the campus, the central part?
Yes.
Mostly in the academic building and right around the academic building.
Then I
I went to business and then so it was a way, well still the English courses and Spanish courses were in the academic building.
When you went to class that freshman year, what did you, what stuff did you carry with you?
Well just your books that you were, for the classes that you had to attend.
It was a rule and regulation that a freshman going to the class could not be stopped or hazed by an upperclassman.
I mean, you would still have to whip out to the upperclassman, but if they detained you
from getting to your class on time, then they would be in trouble, see.
And they observed that rule.
I mean it's like if another upperclassman saw some other upperclassman, you know, kind of giving you a hard time and making you walk out of your way, and he would ask, well where's your class?
Tell them, well the academic, you better, you let him go.
So they would, you know, they would automatically
relieve you and let you go on to your class.
So the only, we didn't have like backpacks or nobody rode a bicycle.
Everybody walked everywhere.
You know, there was no such thing as that.
It was not even a privilege to have those kind of things.
You couldn't, it actually wasn't a privilege for bicycles for freshmen.
So freshmen had to always walk in a certain area,
And I understand that before I came here that they have to walk on the gutters on the side of the curb.
But that wasn't a requirement when we were here.
We would just have to make sure that we were always walking like on the right side.
And when we'd go up to somebody, of course, we'd whip out.
And during the mornings, if you had a blank hour unscheduled, where did you spend that?
It depended.
If you were, say, in good academic standings, then you could use that hour any way you wanted to.
You didn't have to report back to your home.
If you were not in good academic standings, in the first hour, I don't think they made you come back.
But if you had two hours open, you had to come back to your dorm and study.
And they checked on you.
What about going to the MSC or to the library?
Well, we would go there.
I mean, if we had an hour to kill, we would go to the student center and go to the coffee shop there.
That was a hangout then.
Everybody went to the coffee shop.
And as you became, you know, upperclassmen, you were junior, senior, that was really the big hangout for the upperclassmen.
There really were not a lot of places that you could go to here in College Station at that time.
College Station was very small and Brian was kind of distant for us to go to.
If we went to Bryan, we would go to Bryan to go to a movie.
Or we went out to eat, we'd have maybe between Bryan and College Station.
But a lot of times, there was no transportation, because you didn't have cars.
Not very many freshmen had cars.
And we would mostly go to the student center, as you mentioned.
And then in the evenings, like on weekends, to Guyon Hall.
And you would, for lunch, you'd go back?
You'd have to come back to the dorm.
When your classes were over, everybody came back.
And fall in.
And you would fall in and you'd march to the mess hall and they'd break in the mess hall.
Of course, we had Subisa mess hall and we had Duncan mess hall.
The first brigade was at Subisa mess hall.
The second brigade in the Air Force was at Duncan mess hall.
to include the band.
The band was also in there.
So you were in Duncan?
I was in Duncan, yeah.
I was in the Air Force.
Then in the afternoons, what did you do two, three o'clock or so?
Well if I didn't have class I had to come back to the dorm.
And unless they gave me the time to do something else, remember I told them that I had to go get a haircut or I had to go to the laundry, I had to do this, I had to do that.
Okay, that was fine.
But like I said, if your grades weren't up to par, then you really didn't have an option but to come back and study.
And there was a requirement that they wanted to make sure that you made the grades.
And I know that we probably lost 40, 45% of our freshman class, you know.
We had a lot of students and most of them were, I mean I'd say about half the student body here was in the Corps.
So I think if I recall right there was probably, well there was two brigades, 35 companies I think, and 17, maybe 20 Air Force squadrons, somewhere in there.
Because of fish drill team, your intramural activity then
Yeah, we really didn't participate in intramurals unless you didn't have drill or something came up and you were around the dorm.
I remember this happening to me one time.
The athletic officer came up and I was in the room and we didn't have drill that day.
And so he asked me, Fish Garcia, can you swim?
I said, yes, sir.
Put on your bathing suit.
So we went over to the old natatorium that they had.
And we were having a competition there.
We had to swim and meet.
And so I had to swim.
I thought I was going to die.
But I mean, I had to do it, you know.
But not too much intramurals at all.
Now in the evening, then go back after drill team practice, fall in to march to chow,
Well, the drill team went separate.
Oh, you went as a unit.
You went as a unit, but we would go later.
Yes.
Then back to your room for?
Yeah.
Well, I had to be in the room by 7.30.
There was no in this and buts.
I had to be in the room at 7.30 for call to quarters.
And what were the kinds of excuses or what did y'all sometimes do to evade having to be in the room
There weren't too many.
If you belonged to a certain society, like say you were in the Business Society or the Insurance Society or the Marketing Society or the San Antonio A&M Club, which is the one that I belonged to.
then you would have to get a pass signed by the sergeant of the day, okay?
And so you would sign the pass, or the sophomore of the day would sign the pass.
They always had a sophomore, junior, and officer of the day, and they would have to sign off on it.
Somebody had to sign off on it, and you had to put down when you were leaving and when you were coming back.
How easy was it to make up an excuse
and get by with something?
It wasn't too easy.
Wasn't too easy?
It wasn't too easy because they could find out.
We used to have to go to every football game and we had to stay in, I mean that's just to give you an example, that's the way it carried over into trying to get out during the week to go to a meeting or something like that.
So what would happen is that if you went off campus to a football game, you better have been at the football game because you'd come back that Monday and they'd ask you questions about the game.
And they'd ask you about certain things that would kind of confuse you.
And if either you had to read the paper very well or you had better been at the game, you know.
What if someone then was caught, that they had made up some baloney, what?
They would wind up in the bullring.
They used to have the bullring.
And the bullring, you know, you'd have to spend
whatever hours they gave you on the bullring, it could be four hours, five hours, ten hours, whatever.
And so every Saturday afternoon they'd have bullring drills, so you'd have to go behind the Trigon, they'd give you a rifle, and you'd march up and down for two hours, three hours, whatever they told you to march, and then they'd turn it in, they'd check off and see how many hours you had.
You still had some remaining, then you came back the following Saturday.
Fortunately, I never did really have a lot of bullring hours to hold me up, but
All right, you went to class regularly?
I would always go to class.
And how did, how did Aggie fish behave in class then?
Were they attentive?
Were they alert?
Yes, yes.
I mean, I don't, I can't remember that they weren't.
Didn't, few if any went to sleep?
No, that I can recall, no, I mean maybe some, yeah, but not like
like I hear that it happens today that they say excuse-wise that they had too many, too late, the Lowers were very late because of this and that.
And I mean I'm not saying that we didn't have those kind of situations but I don't know, the professors were pretty stern about you going to sleep in class.
And the rules and regulations were pretty hard.
And since it was all male professors, I mean, they could pretty well hold up to whatever they wanted you to do, see, so.
Do you remember any jokes or pranks that ever occurred in class that any students pulled off?
No, not that I can recall, no.
During that first year, were there some special teachers that you remember, some good ones?
Some people that are memorable?
I couldn't remember their names.
You know, I think there were some.
I think like, I remember my algebra teacher.
Who was that?
I can't remember his name, but he was, he came, he was in the, he had just gotten his masters.
And he was, he had been in the Corps.
And he was very good.
He was very good, but I can't remember his name.
Who did you turn to for advice?
I got a problem, how do I deal with this?
We had counselors.
Okay.
Yeah, we had counselors and we'd go visit with them if you needed to.
And the only time I really remember really going to them is whenever I had changed my major.
And then also I think I went to the profs more than I did any professors more than I did anybody else.
I mean if I had a problem I'd go to a professor.
And I found that out was probably the best thing to do as you went into your... By the time I was a junior, I pretty well figured out that, you know, the guy I need to go to is the guy who's teaching me the course.
And I explained the situation to him, and most of them would work with you, even though they'd say they're real hard-nosed.
I do remember one professor in accounting.
Flat top.
He was gray-haired.
Everybody thought he was tough, tough.
And I had him for cost accounting.
And Judge Stewart?
No, like Pierce or he was Pickard or Pierce Pickle, something like that.
I can't remember his name.
But he really was a fair guy.
He really was.
I remember going to him and telling him,
I have a cost accounting exam, and I have an exam.
Talking about class and so forth.
You don't remember any pranks in class?
At all.
Not that I can remember.
Right.
What about in the dormitories in the night?
There was always stuff going on.
Describe some of those.
I may have mentioned this to you before, but I'm
The outfit I was in when I was a freshman was Squadron Six, and our mascot was a pink elephant in a champagne glass.
The elephant kind of in a integrated.
What was the nickname of?
Elno.
Elno?
Elno Six, yeah.
E-L-N-O.
Elno Six.
We couldn't say hell no, we said Elno.
And it was a freshman's privilege to
We had these stencils, pink elephant footprints, and we would stencil parts of the campus with pink elephant footprints.
So you would do it in the late night.
Was it paint?
Yes, we get in trouble, too.
They caught us.
They had to catch us.
And so it got a little bad.
So Captain Shepard, who was our attack officer, Korean War veteran.
I mean, sharp, sharp, sharp man.
I mean, that guy's uniform, every day he came out to the quad.
And it looked like he just stepped into that uniform.
He was really something.
And he was a paratrooper.
He was disabled in the sense that he, I guess he must have gotten, he was wounded in the Korean War, so he kind of walked with a little limp.
But anyway, he came and talked to us and told us that this was getting out of hand, that we had to stop.
He says, I know you freshmen will not admit that you're doing this, but this has got to stop.
And I have been instructed to let you all know that you will not do any more stenciling on anything.
And I think what brought that on is that we stole one of the bass drums from the Aggie band, and we stenciled it with a Pink Elton footprint.
And that kind of got things going in the wrong direction.
And so he came over there and, well, that's part of the deal.
And so anyway, so we just, yes, sir, yes, sir, yes, sir.
He says, and if I even see one more pink elephant footprint on this campus, I will, and it wasn't a big, it was, you know, small.
He says, I will campus you, all the freshmen in the South, and you will not be able to go home, and I will make sure that you're waxing floors every weekend.
Yes, sir.
So he leaves, and that night, yeah, and the upperclassmen didn't say anything.
They just listened, and they said, well, you heard the story.
And so we went ahead and went back.
We said, well, heck, we're going to do it one more time.
So we went over to where the attack officer, his office was, and we put a pink elephant footprint on his door.
So he came back the next morning.
He was waiting for us.
And he campused us, all the freshman class.
And we spent about two weekends, three weekends, I think it was, we waxed floors.
And this was after football season, so we didn't have anything to do anyway, so we waxed floors on weekends.
We had the best floor in the whole campus.
And so he finally just went ahead and told us, OK, that's enough.
Where was the paint hidden?
Where was the paint kept?
The paint, we kept it in one of the rooms.
It was, you know, we knew where it was at.
We'd keep it in one of the freshmen's rooms.
How many people were involved in that stencil?
Normally, the stenciling, you'd get anywhere from six, four to six, depending on how many places you were going, because then they could split up into groups, but normally.
How many people did a stencil once or more times?
Twenty people?
Fifty people?
Oh, no, no, no, no.
I would say, I would say that
More than once, I couldn't tell you, because some of them would go out on their own at night.
I guess they didn't have anything to do.